docs/node-js/beginner-level.md, before:

# Node.js Questions

Here are some of the most common and high-impact questions you might encounter in your interviews. These key questions frequently start conversations and are favorites among interviewers. Prepare well, and you'll be ready to impress!



## Table of Contents

1. [What is Node.js?](#what-is-node.js)
2. [How does Node.js handle errors in asynchronous code?](#how-does-node.js-handle-errors-in-asynchronous-code?)


## What is Node.js?

Node.js is a JavaScript runtime built on Chrome's V8 engine, allowing developers to run JavaScript code outside of a browser. It's designed for building scalable and efficient network applications.

![Node.js Architecture](../assets/nodejs-architecture.png "Node.js architecture")

### Node.js Architecture Overview

1. **Request Flow**:
   - Clients send requests to the Node.js server.
   - Requests are stored in the **Event Queue** using a First-Come, First-Served (FCFS) method.

2. **Event Loop**:
   - Processes requests from the Event Queue.
   - Differentiates between blocking and non-blocking requests.

### Request Types

#### Non-Blocking Requests:
- Executed asynchronously; the program continues without waiting.
- The Event Loop handles these requests quickly, allowing other operations to proceed.

#### Blocking Requests:
- Executed synchronously; the program pauses until completion.
- A thread processes the request, and responses are sent back to clients.
- Default thread pool size is 4 (can increase based on CPU cores).

### Challenges with Blocking Requests:
- Increased client load can exhaust limited threads, causing delays.
- Prefer non-blocking requests to avoid user wait times and improve experience.

### Recommendation:
- Aim to make most requests non-blocking to enhance application scalability and user experience.



## How does Node.js handle errors in asynchronous code?
In Node.js, error handling in asynchronous code is critical due to its event-driven, non-blocking nature. The primary methods include:
1. **Callbacks**: An error-first callback pattern, where the first argument is reserved for an error and the second for the result.
2. **Promises**: A cleaner approach using `.then()` and `.catch()` for error handling.
3. **Async/Await**:  Built on Promises, allowing for a more readable syntax using try/catch block for error handling.


:::code-group
```javascript [Callbacks Example]
function asyncOperation(callback) {
    setTimeout(() => {
        const error = null; // or new Error("Something went wrong");
        const result = "Success";
        callback(error, result);
    }, 1000);
}

asyncOperation((error, result) => {
    if (error) {
        console.error("Error:", error);
    } else {
        console.log("Result:", result);
    }
});

```
```javascript [Promise Example]
function asyncOperation() {
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
        setTimeout(() => {
            const error = null; // or new Error("Something went wrong");
            const result = "Success";
            if (error) reject(error);
            else resolve(result);
        }, 1000);
    });
}

asyncOperation()
    .then(result => console.log("Result:", result))
    .catch(error => console.error("Error:", error));

```


```javascript [Async/Await Example]
async function asyncOperation() {
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
        setTimeout(() => {
            const error = null; // or new Error("Something went wrong");
            const result = "Success";
            if (error) reject(error);
            else resolve(result);
        }, 1000);
    });
}

async function execute() {
    try {
        const result = await asyncOperation();
        console.log("Result:", result);
    } catch (error) {
        console.error("Error:", error);
    }
}

execute();
```
:::

Commit message:

Added new question Event Driven and I/O in node.js

docs/node-js/beginner-level.md, after:

# Node.js Questions

Here are some of the most common and high-impact questions you might encounter in your interviews. These key questions frequently start conversations and are favorites among interviewers. Prepare well, and you'll be ready to impress!



## Table of Contents

1. [What is Node.js?](#what-is-node-js)
2. [How does Node.js handle errors in asynchronous code?](#how-does-node-js-handle-errors-in-asynchronous-code)
3. [Event-Driven, Non-Blocking I/O in Node.js](#event-driven-non-blocking-i-o-in-node-js)


## What is Node.js?

Node.js is a JavaScript runtime built on Chrome's V8 engine, allowing developers to run JavaScript code outside of a browser. It's designed for building scalable and efficient network applications.

![Node.js Architecture](../assets/nodejs-architecture.png "Node.js architecture")

### Node.js Architecture Overview

1. **Request Flow**:
   - Clients send requests to the Node.js server.
   - Requests are stored in the **Event Queue** using a First-Come, First-Served (FCFS) method.

2. **Event Loop**:
   - Processes requests from the Event Queue.
   - Differentiates between blocking and non-blocking requests.

### Request Types

#### Non-Blocking Requests:
- Executed asynchronously; the program continues without waiting.
- The Event Loop handles these requests quickly, allowing other operations to proceed.

#### Blocking Requests:
- Executed synchronously; the program pauses until completion.
- A thread processes the request, and responses are sent back to clients.
- Default thread pool size is 4 (can increase based on CPU cores).

### Challenges with Blocking Requests:
- Increased client load can exhaust limited threads, causing delays.
- Prefer non-blocking requests to avoid user wait times and improve experience.

### Recommendation:
- Aim to make most requests non-blocking to enhance application scalability and user experience.


## How does Node.js handle errors in asynchronous code?
In Node.js, error handling in asynchronous code is critical due to its event-driven, non-blocking nature. The primary methods include:
1. **Callbacks**: An error-first callback pattern, where the first argument is reserved for an error and the second for the result.
2. **Promises**: A cleaner approach using `.then()` and `.catch()` for error handling.
3. **Async/Await**:  Built on Promises, allowing for a more readable syntax using try/catch block for error handling.


:::code-group
```javascript [Callbacks Example]
function asyncOperation(callback) {
    setTimeout(() => {
        const error = null; // or new Error("Something went wrong");
        const result = "Success";
        callback(error, result);
    }, 1000);
}

asyncOperation((error, result) => {
    if (error) {
        console.error("Error:", error);
    } else {
        console.log("Result:", result);
    }
});

```
```javascript [Promise Example]
function asyncOperation() {
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
        setTimeout(() => {
            const error = null; // or new Error("Something went wrong");
            const result = "Success";
            if (error) reject(error);
            else resolve(result);
        }, 1000);
    });
}

asyncOperation()
    .then(result => console.log("Result:", result))
    .catch(error => console.error("Error:", error));

```


```javascript [Async/Await Example]
async function asyncOperation() {
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
        setTimeout(() => {
            const error = null; // or new Error("Something went wrong");
            const result = "Success";
            if (error) reject(error);
            else resolve(result);
        }, 1000);
    });
}

async function execute() {
    try {
        const result = await asyncOperation();
        console.log("Result:", result);
    } catch (error) {
        console.error("Error:", error);
    }
}

execute();
```
:::


## Event-Driven, Non-Blocking I/O in Node.js
Node.js uses an **event-driven, non-blocking I/O model** that makes it lightweight and efficient for building scalable applications. Here's how it works:

### 1. Event-Driven Model
- Node.js operates on an event loop. When a request is made (like reading a file or querying a database), it's processed in an asynchronous manner.  
- Instead of waiting for the request to complete, Node.js listens for events and handles them when they occur, allowing other tasks to proceed.

### 2. Non-Blocking I/O
- Non-blocking I/O means operations (e.g., reading a file) don't stop the execution of other code. Node.js will continue running other tasks while waiting for I/O to finish.  
- This model avoids the traditional thread-based approach of handling concurrent connections, where each thread would block waiting for an operation to complete.

```javascript
const fs = require('fs');

fs.readFile('example.txt', 'utf8', (err, data) => {
  if (err) throw err;
  console.log(data);
});

console.log('Reading file...');
```
